The Chronicle supporters while discharging their constitutional duties.Such incidents occurred after the police officers were deployed to areas where MDC-T supporters were either illegally gathering or engaging in violence.Instead of complying with police orders, some MDC-T youths would become violent and charge towards police officers who were sometimes not armed. Such cases had decreased only to resurface this year.It is now four years down the line and the police have seen that most of these unruly elements are not respecting lives, especially those of their officers who continue to be attacked. Some of them are being injured while others are killed on duty. Police have since declared war against all political malcontents who attack and kill officers.Recently, speaking on behalf of Police Commissioner-General Augustine Chihuri, Commissioner Charles Mfandaidza, said the force would not fold hands while innocent citizens and officers were being decimated by uncouth opposition political elements.He was speaking at a funeral parade service for Inspector Petros Mutedza (42) who was killed by MDC-T supporters while his colleague was left for dead after being brutalised at Glen View 3 Shopping Centre in Harare.“As the organisation continues to lose its dedicated cadres who have either been killed or maimed during their tour of duty, it is my strong conviction that time has come for the Zimbabwe Republic Police to declare war against all unruly elements, be they criminals or misguided political malcontents.“The Zimbabwe Republic Police shall not and I repeat, shall not, sit on its laurels while innocent citizens of this country, let alone police officers being are decimated by uncouth opposition political elements in a naïve and imbecile attempt to make our country ungovernable,” Comm Mfandaidza said.He said it was quite disturbing to note that opposition political parties and some civic organisations who claimed to be masters of democracy and peace were at the helm of causing violence.“Today there is deafening silence about this gruesome act of cold bloodied murder (of Inspector Petrol Mutedza) perpetrated by the same organisations.“Does this then mean that police officers do not have human rights? Regrettably, maybe the crime our late police officer has committed is that of answering to the call of preserving law and order,” he said.Comm Mfandaidza said those who wished to live by the sword must be prepared to die by the sword.In January 2007, a total of 12 MDC-T activists were arrested in Budiriro after they attacked police Assistant Inspector Shedreck Mudzimba while attending a housing co-operative meeting.Asst Insp Mudzimba sustained serious injuries after being attacked by about 200 activists while attending a meeting at Rambai Makashinga Housing Co-operative in Budiriro 5.A report was made to the police who managed to arrest 12 of the suspects.On February 11, 2007, a group of MDC youths driving a pick-up truck with blacked-out number plates stormed into a butchery owned by Zanu-PF shadow MP for Kambuzuma Dr Samuel Mvurume at Kambuzuma 5 Shopping Centre where they smashed glasses of the deep-freezer and stole meat.They were coming from a Mr Morgan Tsvangirai faction rally at Kambuzuma Recreational Park where the faction’s national chairman Isaac Matongo told them to be courageous as a lot of people would be killed, injured and/or arrested when the MDC-T launches its violent campaign to topple the Government. He urged them to attend the launch at Zimbabwe Grounds on February 18.Five days later, two police officers – Sergeant Mukora and Constable Tichareva, both of Waterfalls Police – were assaulted after they tried to break a group of approximately 120 MDC-T supporters gathered at Rezende North Bus terminus in Harare for a demonstration. Wunganai Tapfumanei of Number 111-36th Street, Budiriro 1, Harare was arrested in connection with the assault.On the same day, at Ximex Mall, a group of about 200 MDC supporters attacked two police officers, Constable Kanzou of Harare Central Operations. He was kicked and stabbed with a knife on the left buttock. Constable Chimunzi of Harare Central Operations was kicked and punched. He sustained moderate head injuries. The demonstrators stole the officers’ police caps and handcuffs. Some of the demonstrators ran towards the Police Post in First Street, which they stoned, breaking two windowpanes.On March 11, 2007, the following police officers who were deployed in Highfield were attacked by a group of 100 MDC-T activists, Assistant Inspector Mwinde, Sergeant Smart Makurumure Harare Central and Constable Never Ndowa all from Harare Central Police Station. Asst Insp Mwinde managed to escape, but Const Ndowa and Sgt Makurumure were assaulted and sustained serious head injuries. They were admitted at Harare Central Hospital and both officers were unarmed. Sgt Makurumure sustained serious head injuries and lost some teeth while Cst Ndowa suffered injuries to the head and right leg. A few hours later, Mr Tsvangirai and National Constitutional Assembly chairman, Dr Lovemore Madhuku were seen addressing the youths who had attacked police officers. The youths dispersed leaving Mr Tsvangirai and Dr Madhuku who were subsequently arrested. The duo was taken to Machipisa Police Station and they accused police of being used by Zanu-PF and threatened unspecified action against the officers.At around 3pm, at Zindoga Shopping Centre, Waterfalls, a Zupco bus registration number AAS 0949 had its windows shattered by stones thrown by Save Zimbabwe Campaign project activists. The activists also threw a petrol bomb at an army vehicle, Mazda B1800 registration numbers 43BB97 that was parked at the shopping centre. The bomb exploded igniting a fire, which extensively damages the seats. Major Stanley Dhlamini based at KGVI who was driving the vehicle was alerted and rushed to extinguish the blaze. Two activists, Christopher Dziro and Tapera Munemiwa were arrested in connection with the incidents.About 45 minutes later the Officer-In-Charge Machipisa Police, and his deputy were driving around Highfield in a Mazda B1800. They had eight details on board, one of them was armed with an FN rifle. They met 200 MDC Save Zimbabwe Campaign project activists who charged towards the vehicle. The armed officer fired 18 warning shots into the air but the youths kept advancing. The officer then hit MDC-T Glen View district chairman Gift Tandare under the right armpit and he died on the spot.Tandare had been in remand prison since 2003 in connection with the burning of a Zupco bus in another riotous demonstration by the MDC-T.He had just been released from custody when the incident occurred.