The Chronicle that people were taking advantage of the city’s “slow” pace of developing the areas to help themselves. He was contributing to a debate raised by Councillor Friday Muleya over delays in implementing Mupedzanhamo Phase II in Mbare.“These are efforts to claim livelihoods because council is slow. If you put people in a corner they will find ways of living. They will continue doing so for themselves,” he said.He received a round of applause from fellow councillors. Clr Muleya in whose ward Mupedzanhamo is situated had raised concern that he was nearing the end of his five-year term without satisfying his promise of expanding the fleamarket to accommodate more vendors. “My term is coming to an end without implementing the project. Nothing is moving,” he said.The Mupedzanhamo issue is emotive. Last year, there were clashes at the popular market resulting in injury to individuals and death of a Waterfalls woman. Clr Thomas Muzuva said sitting councillors were wasting their time debating the issue in council chambers as the practical work was being done by Zanu-PF losing candidates in the wards.He said the losing councillors were allocating vending markets and home industry stalls.He also accused management of working behind “our backs’. Clr Urayayi Mangwiro said officials were taking them for granted by allowing them to debate issues that were long concluded.Clr Wellington Chikombo said some of the officials had become more political. “These people are masquerading as officials. These are politicians. They pretend to be officials. Let us also use political strategy,” he said.Clr Munyaradzi Kufahakutizwi, said the city should speed up the allocation of industry and fleamarket stands.Clr Victor Chifodya urged Mayor Muchadeyi Masunda to intervene by talking to political leaders.However, Clr Muzuva seemed to challenge Mr Masunda when he said Mr Onismo Gore the chairman of the Zimbabwe Home Industries Association was more powerful than Mr Masunda. Mr Gore is leading a crusade demanding the allocation of home industry and fleamarket stands to his members.Where the facilities are not available, Mr Gore ensures that his members subdivide open spaces to themselves.